##2.Consider the following optimization to the Bellman-Ford algorithm. Given a graph G=(V,E) with real-valued edge lengths, we label the vertices V={1,2,3,…,n}. The source vertex s should be labeled "1", but the rest of the labeling can be arbitrary. Call an edge (u,v)∈E forward if u<v and backward if u>v. In every odd iteration of the outer loop (i.e., when i=1,3,5,...), we visit the vertices in the order from 1 to n. In every even iteration of the outer loop (when i=2,4,6,...), we visit the vertices in the order from n to 1. In every odd iteration, we update the value of A[i,v] using only the forward edges of the form (w,v), using the most recent subproblem value for w (that from the current iteration rather than the previous one). That is, we compute A[i,v]=min{A[i−1,v],min(w,v)A[i,w]+cwv}, where the inner minimum ranges only over forward edges sticking into v (i.e., with w<v). Note that all relevant subproblems from the current round (A[i,w] for all w<v with (w,v)∈E) are available for constant-time lookup. In even iterations, we compute this same recurrence using only the backward edges (again, all relevant subproblems from the current round are available for constant-time lookup). Which of the following is true about this modified Bellman-Ford algorithm?

**ANS** It correctly computes shortest paths if and only if the input graph has no negative-cost cycle.
**proof** Indeed. Can you prove it? As a preliminary step, prove that with a directed acyclic graph, considering destinations in topological order allows one to compute correct shortest paths in one pass (and thus, in linear time). Roughly, pass i of this optimized Bellman-Ford algorithm computes shortest paths amongst those comprising at most i "alternations" between forward and backward edges.