##1.Consider a connected undirected graph G with not necessarily distinct edge costs. Consider two different minimum-cost spanning trees of G, T and T′. Is there necessarily a sequence of minimum-cost spanning trees T=T0,T1,T2,…,Tr=T′ with the property that each consecutive pair Ti,Ti+1 of MSTs differ by only a single edge swap? Prove the statement or exhibit a counterexample.

##2.Consider the following algorithm. The input is a connected undirected graph with edge costs (distinct, if you prefer). The algorithm proceeds in iterations. If the current graph is a spanning tree, then the algorithm halts. Otherwise, it picks an arbitrary cycle of the current graph and deletes the most expensive edge on the cycle. Is this algorithm guaranteed to compute a minimum-cost spanning tree? Prove it or exhibit a counterexample.

##3.Consider the following algorithm. The input is a connected undirected graph with edge costs (distinct, if you prefer). The algorithm proceeds in phases. Each phase adds some edges to a tree-so-far and reduces the number of vertices in the graph (when there is only 1 vertex left, the MST is just the empty set). In a phase, we identify the cheapest edge ev incident on each vertex v of the current graph. Let F={ev} be the collection of all such edges in the current phase. Obtain a new (smaller) graph by contracting all of the edges in F --- so that each connected component of F becomes a single vertex in the new graph --- discarding any self-loops that result.Let T denote the union of all edges that ever get contracted in a phase of this algorithm. Is T guaranteed to be a minimum-cost spanning tree? Prove it or exhibit a counterexample.

##4.Recall the definition of a minimum bottleneck spanning tree from Problem Set #1. Give a linear-time (i.e., O(m)) algorithm for computing a minimum bottleneck spanning tree of a connected undirected graph. [Hint: make use of a non-trivial linear-time algorithm discussed in Part 1.]